now there is growing uncertainty over
Israel's ground offensive in GA in the
Gaza Strip after the Israeli military
pulled most of its troops out of
Southern Gaza on Sunday Israel said it
needed to prepare soldiers for future
future offensives including into the
city of Rafa where more than a million
people are Sheltering meanwhile some
Palestinians have begun returning to
their homes but after months of air
strikes and ground battles with Hamas
militants many are returning to
ruins this is Han yunit after months of
bombardment displaced residents have
been rushing back to their homes after
Israel announced most of its troops had
been pulled out of the
area it's a shock a shock what happened
was not small on my way here in the car
I saw the destruction it's
unbearable I'm going to my house and I
know that it is destroyed I'm going to
move the rubble so I can get a shirt
a bit further north in der Al Bala much
needed Aid arrived at schools and
shelters for the first time in 2 months
the need for everything from food to
medical supplies is urgent according to
eight agencies the UN says famine is
fast
approaching many children have suffered
from malnutrition as a result of
overcrowding there've been respitory and
health problems such as hepatitis all of
these things are a result of
overcrowding in the the shelter because
a large number of people left their
homes because of the
war a war that has now lasted six months
and with no end in
sight Lieutenant Colonel Peter Lana is a
spokesman for Israel's military and he
told me more about the Strategic
considerations behind the idf's
withdrawal of soldiers from Khan
yunes we know that um the IDF is
continuing its mission to dismantle and
destroy Hamas as a governing Authority
in the Gaza Strip uh and indeed as um
the defense minister pointed out the
forces have been re withdrawn or taken
out of the Gaza Strip in order to
regroup recuperate and continue for
operational planning wherever it takes
us we do know that in the Gaza Strip
there are still at least uh six
operational battalions of Hamas four of
those indeed in the Rua area two in more
Central Gaza um operating at a l
capacity but in the south in Rafa there
are still four operational battalions if
we're going to be successful at
dismantling Hamas we're going to have to
go to Rafa I think if we've learned
anything from our rescue operation two
months ago in Rafa uh that hostages are
being held there and that there is an
extensive force that can conduct
organized fighting against us so we need
to operate in order to get rid of Hamas
and bring back the hostages now there
has been speculation that pulling out a
large number of troops would change the
face of of that uh War um indicating
that maybe the IDF is going more into a
surgical mode instead of a fullon
full-on war if you will um what do you
say to
that so the operation has different
stages and indeed as we um the war
evolves moves forward and we dismantled
much of hamas's infrastructure uh
operational capability production and
Industry capabilities to dis to produce
uh terrorist uh weapons and and tunnel
systems so of course there's a different
type of operation that is required we
are maintaining operational capabilities
both Precision strikes from the sky as
the operation develops but also ground
operations based on intelligence based
on the operational flexibility and
freedom that we will maintain and
continue to maintain um as we as we do
look forward you know we have to realize
that this operation has to work in
conjunction with a humanitarian
operation that supplements supports is
the right thing to do um and also it's
an operational and and strategic enabler
now some critics in Israel say that the
troop withdrawal gives Hamas the chance
to regroup what's your view on
that I would say we have um good
confidence in our forces in our
strategic uh posture at this time uh of
course of course as we saw when Hamas
went back to shifa hospital it is an
opportunity and it is an option but as
we proved when we went back to ra shifa
nowhere is safe we can always take out
Hamas wherever they are we can operate
we can mobilize swiftly we can engage
and we can seek them out even if there
is a an attempt to regroup or take
control of different locations like they
did in the shifa uh instance now the
Israeli government declared clear aims
for this war from the beginning the
elimination of Hamas and the releasing
of the hostages U have you gotten any
closer to
that so we've uh dismantled destroyed a
huge amount of their battalions their
operational forces taking out many of
their commanders their political leaders
as well I would say yes every day that
goes by we are moving closer and closer
to dismantling Hamas as a governing
authority of the Gaza Strip that is the
goal
uh or that is goal number one with
alongside with Goal number two of
bringing home the hostages um we have to
be successful because if we aren't
successful in dismantling Hamas it will
send a very clear message to terrorist
organizations around the world that it's
okay to come into people's bedrooms and
butcher them that's something we can't
expect we can't accept and we will
continue to fight in order to make sure
that it doesn't happen so I would say
yes we are moving closer every day it's
a war that they've been planning for um
and building their their infrastructure
and Industry over the last 16 years so
if that's the situation there is no
quick fix to the reality we're going to
take our time until we reach our goals
Lieutenant Colonel Peter lner there
spokesman for Israel's military in Tel
thank you very much
Colonel good evening I want to cross now
over to Mike Martin he's military
analyst from King's College London Mike
it's good to see you um so we've heard
from the IDF only six operational Hamas
battalions are left in Rafa and Central
Gaza we've also heard from Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu saying
yesterday that Israel is one step from
Victory taking all of this together does
this mean that the war in Gaza is close
to its
[Music]
end couple of points uh so the word
Battalion is is quite problematic when
you apply it to an Insurgent group
because they don't organize them m eles
in battalions that's of course what the
Israeli Defense Force does and other
militaries they organize themselves in
structures but as an Insurgent group uh
Hamas is quite hard to describe them as
organized in battalions in terms of is
the war going to end soon well I think
you know the conflict in Gaza can end at
any time there are ceasefire talks going
on and you know hostages will be
released and the IDF will withdraw these
are all the things that are being
discussed at the moment but it will
really only freeze the conflict in a
strategic sense the conflict will carry
on Hamas still wants to destroy Israel
and Israel still wants to destroy Hamas
and there's no political end state for
this conflict and there's no after
conflict plan if they do do this ceas
fire for hostages swap so the fighting
could end at any time but the conflict
will continue There are critics in
Israel who say that the troop withdrawal
from Han Yunis give Hamas the chance to
regroup there what do you say to
that yes I think in one sense that is is
very correct um but in another we've
seen there have been several examples
during this war of areas of Gaza that
have been occupied by Israeli troops and
then Rockets have been fired from those
areas or the alifa hospitals a good
example as well where the Israelis
obviously went through did a big
operation there kept lots of troops in
the vicinity and then a couple of months
later they had to go back and do another
operation and again that's the nature of
these types of War these Insurgent
conflicts it's very hard to kill all of
the enemy and so you end up just going
back and called it's called
unfortunately mowing the grass and you
don't get all of the enemy and then you
have to go back again and so yes the
Israelis have left Khan unun and that
may give some of those Hamas operatives
more space but uh in the overall sense
of the war you know Hamas is still able
to operate underground even in those
areas that Israel uh controls and you
know hearing you say that it sounds like
the past six months of of fighting have
been for almost for for for nothing if
Hamas is still able to operate in some
form of fashion we still don't have the
hostages released so what has been the
point of the past 6 months I mean as a
military analyst I mean do you also find
yourself trying to get through the fog
of War all the time when you're trying
to understand what's going
on yeah I mean this is a great question
uh and you'll have to look back at some
of my DW interviews in October November
December uh and along with many other
people uh we pointed out that this type
of high intensity ground combat that
Israel has been practicing uh carrying
out in the Gaza Strip is ultimately
unsuited to trying to achieve what it
said it wanted to achieve which was to
destroy Hamas you need something much
more targeted specific intelligence-led
Precision taking out individual people
and this way also of course you avoid
these massive civilian casualties which
are so counterproductive not just at
Israel's International image but also it
creates the next generation of
insurgents or terrorists that want to
fight Israel so I do think you know
there is this question is this
withdrawal and admission by the Israelis
a tacit admission that actually their
strategy hither to hasn't been working
that well and now they're going to do
something slightly
different Mike Martin military analyst
from Kings College London like as always
we appreciate your time and your
analysis thank
you thank you very
much